P.M. —
The Art of Life We are going to
start with the instances.
We are going to try to see together
what can bring us In the modern world
we live in, quality is our teacher.
Many questions are asked to you, in relation
to the environment in which we live in
today, and the environment of the future.
But there are still more questions.
I would like to discuss the environment in
which we live, in its economic context, in
its social context, in relation to certain moral
values, in relation to certain values that I
would call simply human warmth, warmth of the
heart.
I have lived in an environment since 1970,
not for the world, but for the summer.
For the summer, against elements that have totally
deviated from the image we are of values.
They are those that lead us, or that
bind us, to what has always been forgotten
by the past.
And still we do not have it.
If you are here tonight, it is probably
because you have read a poster at the
conference of Chanel.
You could have read it or heard it,
but it does not matter.
It does not matter, I am here and
I will pass the information on to you.
Your presence here tonight shows that you are
researchers.
And just because you are researchers, you will
avoid it.
Each of us must have our own aspect.
Personally, I met Chanel 4 years ago, or
more, I do not remember.
And what surprised me was her simplicity.
And yet she used to attend what we
call the high society, the low society.
She was a member of the Indian diplomatic
corps.
She is in contact with many others.
She is a person.
It is a word that emanates from her
person and the enormous freedom that
guides her through gender.
I knew my freedom.
Indeed.
Freedom.
A great freedom of action and a great
freedom of mind.
Freedom because there is the first value that
is the property of each human being.
You are free to listen.
You are free to think.
You are free to act.
And no one can go against your freedom.
It has already happened.
In the last 30 years.
Where are we?
Chakra.
It is you who are going to be
afraid.
Because you are not going to think.
You are not going to think.
So all of this, of course, is a
vocabulary that covers absolutely other truths that are
ultimately present when we arrive at a sexual
intercourse.
There is only a cat that really looks
like a human being.
A human being is an image of something
on this earth, of course.
But a human being is a seed that
in good soil devours its roots and devours
the stem, the stem of a tree, the
trunk of a tree, the branches grow, the
flowers grow, the leaves, the tree breathes.
It is all there spontaneously.
We are going to say a flowering tree.
It is a natural process.
A process that escapes totally to the
scientific concepts that have been developed.
Our researchers at some point aim at an
element that we no longer understand.
At some point it is the atom, at
some point it is the carbon.
At some point, in the research, there is
a big question mark.
And how many people who have developed by
the simple recognition of this question that God
does not exist have finally opened themselves to
the question of his existence.
Every human being has an image of God.
Like every human being in nature has an
image of God.
And we find in ourselves different aspects.
And it is important to find this link,
to find the dialogue that researchers have now
managed to reconnect through long experiences of meditation
that in the Himalayas or in such and
such part of the world through meditation, through
prayer.
We reconnect each of us to a certain
number of chakras or whatever that are represented
on this chart that represent qualities.
Qualities that make the being, the warm being
who wants to share with others, who wants
to awaken.
And it is important to understand that this
process that was long in its time has
come to an end where effectively we can
go much faster.
Who knows how to light a fire?
Originally, we don't know.
This fire lit a candle.
And with this candle, we can light another
candle.
There is another candle, another candle, another candle,
another body.
And the room in which we were must
become a living, brilliant being.
This is what we learned from the Bible.
By awakening this divine energy that resides in
each of us, that holds us all together.
and certainly on the other side, that I
don't know yet, but that the muslims know
about it, that the Catholics know about it,
this divine energy resides in us at the
level of the sacred tree.
It is the one that is shown in
this kind of spiral two or three times
a year.
And now it is given to each of
us to have this realization, that is to
say, to have this divine energy awakened so
that it leaves its position in our body
to be able to rise up and to
be able to awaken in us.
This divine power that gives man his true
glory.
The Kundalini, by raising it up, raises up
the consciousness points of the different chakras, the
different points that are represented by the Kundalini.
Acharya, these chakras, how can we avoid them?
We will come back to this later.
But, how?
How can we heal these chakras that we
did not understand?
Yes, it is also important to find in
oneself a deep balance.
You can see on this chart the central
canal.
It is the canal by which the Kundalini
rises.
But if this path is obstructed by containment
that has been created by attitudes that are
totally abnormal, that are aggressive, how can the
Kundalini rise?
We have to start by healing each chakra.
We have to start by finding the balance.
We have to start by rebalancing a right
side and a left side.
They are also represented by the nervous system
in blue and yellow colors.
The left side is the one of the
past, the one of desire.
And the right side is the one of
the present.
And you have the desire for everything if
you learn how to take action.
Action is the ability to realize desire.
Attitudes are two movements that allow to return
to the balance.
And this balance starts by attitudes that do
not allow the Kundalini to rise.
And then you will feel and understand what
will be on the level of each of
the points that define the sensitivities of the
path.
This is a step to cross over.
This is yoga.
And there is a prayer.
A prayer for which no one has prayed
because they are hungry.
A prayer for which no one will feel
obliged because they are hungry for food.
This is the prayer for the liberation of
the Kundalini.
Excuse me, I forgot what I said before.
This is the liberation of the Kundalini.
The prayer for this sensation on the level
of the chakra.
This is the awakening of the Kundalini.
And this awakening will allow you to feel
what is happening on the level of the
chakra.
This is the sensation that is given to
you.
During your realization, you will feel a fresh
breeze.
We even speak of the fluttering of the
hands.
And it is this sensitivity that will be
given to you that you will feel on
the level of the hands, on the level
of the body.
Maybe immediately, maybe a little later.
And this will belong to you.
And you are the only master to decide
if you want the return to the initial
state.
And this is important.
It is important to understand that you are
the only one to have the key to
this system.
Because no one can increase it.
No one can buy or sell exactly what
he wants.
Shri Mataji has been fighting for years for
this.
And it is curiously so simple that the
Sacred Divinity is in harmony with her.
She does not ask money for what you
want to follow.
She lets you enter the room.
There is still a moment of peace at
the exit where you come after the pressure
of the totality of your lights.
It is the same thing.
When we practice this technique in the Ayurveda,
when we become aware of the vibrations emitted
by the divine nature through the chakras, we
know for sure that we naturally tend towards
an equilibrium.
Living in a civilization where there are many
chakras in relation to sex, for example, is
extremely difficult.
There is no face that is beautiful.
At the level of the first chakra, which
protects the Kundalini, which is the largest chakra,
there is no face that is beautiful at
the level of the second chakra.
There is no expression of frustration.
From the moment you seek this equilibrium, you
understand that happiness is in the expression.
Values have disappeared from our society and yet,
when we get closer, we are already here.
The air is the Kundalini.
The relationship with the air takes on another
dimension.
We have in our chakras the seat of
innocence, the innocence of life, not the reality
that we are talking about.
Innocence.
The next chakra is the forest chakra, which
governs our functions, which governs our actions.
It is on faith that we can, when
we do not have anything to do with
the earth, to push it and distract it.
What we pay attention to is often the
cause of our problems.
The next chakra is the life chakra.
Unfortunately, I am a real escapist, we will
talk about that later.
I think we are not going to talk
about it tonight.
The next chakra is the life chakra, which
governs our lives today.
We live a lot, we have nothing.
We find.
There is also the heart chakra, where we
find the permeable relationships.
We also go back to what I said
on the left side, the possibility, and another
chakra, the possibility.
By going back, we arrive at the point
where the left and right sides And to
avoid touching the community, simply because a left
side is too important, or a right side
is too important, we developed two little points
of contact between the two sides.
And finally, the last point of this chakra,
we find ourselves in the heart chakra.
And this is the point of evolution, the
realization of the body.
This little point there, we develop it little
by little, and we discover that the values
of one or the other chakra clearly progress.
By looking for this line, we will talk
about it later.
But go ahead and listen.
Let's simply respect ourselves, the people who are
looking for this path.
This is the point of evolution, which is
part of the labors, but the values of
the community and of our brothers, they give
us a beautiful sensitive instrument.
Because each chakra corresponds to its owner.
And we still need to have the sensitivity
of the people who are looking for it.
And we need to have it.
We need to have it.
I tried to do my best, I insisted
on the value of a balanced life and
I spoke about the chakras in a very
good way, insisting on the balance.
Not on the three gurus, you didn't touch?
Very little, but there is a thing, they
are free, completely free.
But I didn't go much more ahead in
this.
I'll stand, it will be better.
This one is for the people, this one
is for you.
Hello.
Better take out my cell.
I bow to all the seekers of truth.
These are exceptional times.
There are thousands and thousands people born on
this earth who have been seeking the truth
for many lives.
It is a very special category of personality.
As a result of this, people started
the seeking in various ways of the unknown.
But whatever is unknown is not the truth.
This is the problem in the West that
we are not knowledgeable about the roots on
which we stand.
The knowledge in the West is that of
the tree and not of the roots.
And that is why many people have taken
full advantage of this naivety.
From 1970 I've been speaking very loudly against
all such people who have come to the
West to delude you.
How they have tried to loot you and
to give you diseases and troubles of incorrigible
nature.
In the beginning when I talked against them,
people here were protesting vehemently.
And they were so badly mesmerized that I
could not rescue them.
Such people, we can say, form real cults.
But the truth has to be in the
line of evolutionary process.
It has to have the basis.
It cannot just come from somewhere and people
say, this is a method or this is
a way it is to be done.
As you know in the Vedas it is
described thousands of years back that Kundalini is
the one which gives you realization.
Patanjali Shastra also describes it fully.
Recently we would say about 16th, 17th century
we had a great poet in India who
elaborately spoke about the Kundalini awakening.
In the Bible it is called as tree
of fire and in the Koran it is
called as Asas in the Koran.
In all the religious scriptures it is said
that the time has to come when you
must get your self-realization, your second birth.
But it appeals to right-sided people as
I call them, the people who live with
the ego more.
To accept some sort of a new knowledge,
which may not have any relationship whatsoever with
the traditional evolutionary knowledge.
Now once I went to Pune very recently,
I met lots of Brahmins of Pune were
suffering from terrible diseases of heart, of kidneys,
high blood pressure, tensions and other diseases of
muscular disability.
They all told Me they were following a
particular guru called Gulwani, the name itself means
hodgepodge in our language.
The guru is no more now but his
disciple, the chief disciple, I wanted to meet
him and when he came to see Me
I asked him, what were you doing?
So he said, have you heard about Arunopay,
Tarunopay, Karunopay, funny names?
I said, I've never heard, what are these
names from, which Shastras?
Then he said, have you heard about Shaktipat?
I said, never.
From where did you learn this word?
They said sixty years back.
Somebody called Vishnu Tirth has written a book
in which he has described this new method
of meditation.
And in the same book it is written
that when your Kundalini is awakened you start
jumping like a frog.
Now these Brahmins are very well educated, highly
intellectual in India who know lot of things
about Sanskrit also.
So I asked him, are you going to
become a frog now?
So he said, no, the book says you
have to pass through all the yonis, all
the other stages.
Again you have to become a frog, then
a lion, then this, that and everything and
then you become a human being and then
a superhuman being.
Such absurd things were readily accepted by these
so-called intellectuals.
They were all possessed people and suffering from
terrible physical diseases.
So the cult is like this, which comes
in opposition to everything that is said before
and something new like a fashion it starts.
And the ego oriented people are never individualistic
because they have no personality of their own.
If they see somebody is wearing a dress
like this, immediately they start wearing like that.
Now there is another kind of misfortune the
seekers have faced, that is the so-called
organized religions.
Now when you see the religions, you are
amazed how these people are religious cutting each
other's throats.
Even the Christians who came to India had
Bible in one hand and a revolver in
the other.
These Christians went all around the world killing
thousands and thousands of aboriginals in all the
countries supposed to be following Christ who died
for them.
I went to Argentina and I wanted to
meet one aboriginal personality, one, but they said
that we don't have any, if you want
to see you can go to the museum
where they have got some pictures.
So as a result of this kind of
behavior new type of branches came out of
the same tree.
The sects were formed like we have from
Catholicism, Protestants and then Protestants we have all
kinds of Seventh Day Adventists and we have
Pentecostals and this and that and God knows
Unity Church and all sorts of things, born
twice, twice born.
Even in Catholicism now they have started a
new thing called Charismatic and we had last
time in Paris a boy who came from
there and he was all possessed and he
started shouting, screaming, he fainted and he had
epilepsy.
Now one must know that if it is
God's work or if it's the God's blessings
you get, how can you get sick?
It is just a mental projection that to
say that God worked for seven days and
He rested on Saturday.
What difference does it make whether we rest
on Sunday or Saturday?
And they say when the Pentecost, when the
cool breeze of the Holy Ghost came in,
the disciples started using their hands in such
a manner that people thought they were mad
because if you are living in a mad
world everybody thinks you are mad.
They
started talking the language of the hands and
strange language of the chakras of the centers.
It was not the language like a French
speaking English and English speaking French.
Mohammad Sahab has said clearly that at the
time of resurrection your hands will speak.
I say Martin Luther was a realized soul
but where he went wrong was to bifurcate
this branch of Christianity by saying that there
was all wrong with the Pope.
But one must understand that this was the
very wrong approach because we must always go
to the fundamentals of everything.
I think there are three things fundamental of
Christ's life.
The first and foremost thing He has said
that we are to be born again.
That doesn't mean any crazy priest puts his
hand on your head and says you are
born again or you take a self certificate,
born again, move about.
That means it has to be some living
process worked in you.
Something evolutionary by which you become something great
as Mohammad Sahab has said you become a
Wali.
As Krishna has said that you become sthita
pragya.
Sthita pragya is the one who is completely
balanced in life.
And pragya means the one whose awareness is
enlightened with collective consciousness.
But we carried on with all these mythical
things thinking that we were doing the right
thing.
The second fundamental of Christianity is that Christ
died for our sins
That He suffered for us.
We do not have to suffer for religion.
We do not have to suffer for our
ascent.
Only we are to be realized souls so
that we become one with the Divine, then yoga takes place
So firstly He said to Nicodemus that you
are to be born again and when Nicodemus
said, is it I enter into the womb
of My Mother?
He says, no, whatever is born of the
flesh is the flesh.
You are to be born out of the
Holy Ghost.
And the third thing, which is the most
important thing that He said, was that I
will send you a Redeemer, I'll send you
a Counselor.
What about that prediction that He made about
the three qualities of the Holy Ghost who
will save you?
The Counselor, the Redeemer and the Comforter.
Instead of forming these branches of religion, same
in Islam, same in Hinduism, we have the
same problem that you use your mental projections
to solve the spiritual problems.
You cannot solve through your petty mind, which
is such a limited thing.
Something living has to happen within us to
make us that which is promised.
It cannot be an experience of jumping or
changing your dresses or leaving your dresses, all
these we can do ourselves, what is there
to talk of Spirit then?
As late as hundred years back, William Blake
has clearly said that men of God will
be born on this earth and they will
have the blessings of the Holy Ghost.
They will become the prophets and they will
have power to make others prophets.
Even you, who really oppose Freud, because Freud
you know what he has given us, his
aids.
There's another disease now coming from the same
great man whom we followed more than Christ.
It makes a person insane before he's forty
years of age.
So that is how we have gone wrong
in our choices.
The greatest mistake in the Bible was that
we introduced Paul there.
What was Paul?
He never saw Christ.
He was a man suffering from epilepsy.
He talked nothing about Christ.
How can he understand Christ?
Now there's a very big group of people
in England who think themselves to be great
intellectuals and theologians are saying that Christ was
not divine.
By studying theology you can't understand Christ.
It is said that by through your spirit
only you will know Him.
Where is your spirit?
I don't know French but in English spirit
means all kinds of things.
It can mean alcohol, it can mean a
dead body and it can mean your atma.
So now under these confused conditions one has
to talk about something that is very deep.
This is the knowledge of the roots.
This we knew in India thousands of years
back.
Fourteen thousand years back Markandeya wrote about it.
And many people after that elaborately explained.
But in the last hundred years the same
great country has created such frauds that you
cannot imagine how far one can go with
fraudulent statements.
So what you call the baptism is a
living process within us of the Kundalini awakening
and you have to feel the cool breeze
out of your fontanel bone yourself.
In the Bible it is said, I will
appear before you tongues of flames.
What are these tongues of flames are nothing
but the centers.
There is falsehood quite a lot but there
has to be the truth as well.
So you should not despair.
Everybody can get their self realization.
Absolutely effortlessly, spontaneously because it is a living
process.
All this mechanism that is shown here can
be related to the medical terminology of sympathetic
nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system.
Now the awakening of the Kundalini is a
spontaneous happening.
As a seed when you plant it in
the Mother Earth, the Mother Earth itself sprouts
the seed spontaneously in the same way the
Kundalini rises
and
gives you that power.
By which you become collectively conscious.
You can know about yourself and you can
know about others.
First of all your health improves, your diseases
disappear.
Sahaja Yoga had cured one person suffering from
AIDS and he was quite alright for a
year or so but again he went back
to his bad habits and did not take
to Sahaja Yoga and again he is sick.
After all the Creator has created us with
such care and love and there must be
some purpose behind it.
He doesn't want us to just end up
as sex points or some sensational nonsense.
So we should say that the Divine itself
is anxious that you all should get your
realization because you have been seekers of ages.
The Kundalini awakening takes place and you can
feel the cool breeze on top of your
head and first time you start feeling the
all pervading power of God's love as cool
breeze.
Shankaracharya has described us as salilam, sali means
cool and cool and cool.
Buddha also has talked of only Self-Realization.
He did not want to talk of God
because when you start talking of God everybody
thinks they have become God themselves.
So to be practical he and Mahavira both
of them said that first have your realization
then we'll talk.
So we have to have our Self-Realization
first.
You may say that we would like to
know all the intricacies and all the mechanism
how it works out.
You will know it but as if you
have to put the light in this hall
you have to just switch on once which
can work the whole thing, it's all built
in.
Why not have the light first and then
we'll talk about it, there's lot of time.
I think that's what it is, what we
have to achieve.
Today it has been an introduction to Sahaja
Yoga but tomorrow I'll elaborately tell, day after
tomorrow isn't it, I'll elaborately tell you about
what works it out, what is Kundalini, every
details that we can touch in that short
lecture.
Thank you very much.
But if you have any questions I will
be happy to answer them.
And then we'll have the session of realization
also.
What is he saying?
What are you, you are telling Me in
French or what?
What's that?
That's it.
That's what we are going to have.
First of all the realization and then we
have a center here.
We have some people who have been doing
Sahaja Yoga for quite some time.
You have to join them.
They will tell you one by one how
you master yourself fully.
First of course is the realization but how
to keep it up, how to use it,
how to work it out, how to be
the master, that you have to pay little
time.
They, I'm told the first time that the
French are charging little money for the bookkeeping
and the paper and the tapes, a little
bit, not much.
Of course I don't take any money and
you cannot purchase Me.
It cannot be purchased.
So I, it's a very little money, that's
what they said, that they have to charge
because all the pressure of everything was on
them.
So it's all right.
I mean they will show you all the
accounts where they send spending.
There is one more point I want to
make it, that Freud has said that we
should not be conditioned by anything.
So our egos have developed too much.
And we say, what's wrong in everything we
do?
Like in England some people came to Me
with painted hair and funny dresses and I
asked them, why do you do it?
They said, what's wrong?
I said, it's wrong because your eyesight will
become weak.
But if we do not understand the practical
way of life which is balance, we really
become very one-sided.
So now we have to understand that it
is not a mental projection.
And when the triggering of the Kundalini takes
place, actually it presses on both the sides
or sucks in on both the sides the
ego and the superego as you see there,
the conditioning as well as your ego.
And this portion of the head, which is
the fontanel bone area, becomes softer.
Actually it happens.
Then you do not get conditioned nor into
ego but you become the Spirit, the free
Spirit.
The Spirit of Wisdom.
You start feeling the vibrations of cool breeze
on your hands, fingertips, and you start
and you can find out fundamental answers to
any questions.
As if you become a complete computer.
First time the Absolute starts asserting itself, manifesting
itself on the central nervous system.
So whatever you feel on your central nervous
system is the evolutionary gain.
That is a real ascent, not just a
mental projection,
not some sort of a subservient attitude towards someone
or accepting somebody because he appeals to your mind.
But you become the absolute discriminating element, that
is the Spirit.
Element, you become the element of that.
So we have to understand that we have
such a potential within us.
Like a television, if you see it looks
like a box, but when you put to
the mains, you know what it is.
In the same way this human being that
looks very ordinary is tremendous.
It is fantastic.
Only it is to be put to the
mains and the connections have to be fixed
properly.
It can be sometimes loose.
Only that alertness is needed.
Sahaja also means easy.
Whatever is spontaneous is the easiest.
Whatever is vital has to be easiest.
Say for our breathing if you have to
get to a guru, what will happen to
us?
That's what it is.
Any other question?
Yes
From here, the lady
What did she say ?
Here only just now, just now, nowhere to
go, here, all right.
What else did you say, sir?
Once you have this realization, can you fall
back to sleep again and forget it?
Can you?
Fall back to sleep, fall asleep again.
No, you shouldn't.
Why do you sleep?
You have to be alert.
You have to work for God.
You have to give realizations to others.
You are now enlightened.
As Christ has said, the light is not
put under the table.
Why should you sleep?
We have to work very hard.
We have to save thousands and thousands.
The epidemic is coming of satanic forces like
drugs, this, that.
Who's going to work it out?
By doing all this, you are relaxed.
You do it as a drama, as a
play, lila.
What else?
Did you ask some question there, gentleman, there?
Yes, madame?
You tell Me.
Make it short, madame.
What is it?
What she said?
There are very few.
They are hiding in the Himalayas.
They don't want to face.
I sent one gentleman to America.
He ran away from there in three days.
He wouldn't stick on.
But I'm not a guru.
I'm a mother.
And you have to become the guru.
You have to become your own guru.
You don't need any other guru but yourself.
Good.
All right, now.
Yes?
What did he say?
Not at all, not at all.
Who told you that?
No, no, no.
All that is all facts.
You see, one should eat whatever is suitable
to us.
For example, I would say those who eat
too much of cheese should not eat.
That's French.
Slaughtered what?
So what is he worried about?
Now, just see what I would suggest now.
For people who are right-sided, they should
not eat too much meat.
But those who are left-sided should eat.
Otherwise they'll be even worse.
Left-sided people must eat meat.
But now, just a minute, just a minute,
just a minute.
Now, by saving the chickens, what are we
going to achieve?
Chickens, am I going to give them realization?
Can I give to the pigs?
Can I?
Save the human beings first.
Please pay attention to the most important thing.
They are human beings.
There are people who need proteins.
They have to have proteins.
Like in India, I would say many people
should have proteins.
If they can afford, they should have.
But they are very weak.
Mentally they are all right, but muscular.
You may not agree, but that's what it
is, because if by becoming vegetarian, if you
get to God and by starving and fasting,
we are already doing it in India.
If you want to have fasting, you'll have
fasting all your lives.
That's what it is.
When the Jews did not believe in Christ,
they said, we must have suffering, they had
it.
And now you ask for fasting, you'll have
Lives together.
Better starve.
That's what you want.
Do you want your spirit or you want
all these things?
By these things you are not going to
reach to God.
On the contrary, you must have a good
health.
If you don't have a good health, you
cannot be a good Sahaja Yogi.
But all the yogis are vegetarians.
They would never touch meat, I know.
Who is a, you tell Me one name.
You just tell Me one, who is a
other yogi according to you.
What good they have done.
Have they given Realization?
You are not realized yourself.
If you have met them, why didn't you
get your Realization?
Why are you getting angry?
No, I'm not getting angry.
I'm just asking you, you, if I'm not
getting angry.
What makes you think I'm getting angry?
I'm on the loudspeaker, you are not, that's
all.
All right?
This is not the way.
You see, we must understand what have we
been doing so far.
What did we achieve out of it?
Be sensible.
You have to be sensible.
And the sense is that if you go
on paying attention to things which are not
concerning the Spirit, it won't work out.
Like Krishna killed many people, He had to.
The Goddess had to kill so many rakshasas
and devils, She had to.
She had to even drink the blood of
this Rakta Bija.
If you have read the books, you will
know what they had to do.
After all, you see, whatever has to be
done, has to be done.
That's all right.
No, no.
All right, let's have it.
You see, you must have more care for
the human beings, not for all these things.
You see, there is a community in India
called Jains.
They even try to save the bugs and
the mosquitoes.
Are we going to give Realization to mosquitoes?
He never said it.
Now, about Buddha, don't tell Me, because Buddha
died by eating the pig.
Now, He could not have been said that.
Is not true.
All right?
That settles it.
Buddha, don't try to manipulate.
He has been very much manipulated.
When I went to China, luckily because of
My husband I travel a lot, I was
surprised the lama, the Dalai Lama, his things
were kept there, written in Pali, because I
read Pali.
And all the things that he had were
made of solid gold.
His beer cup, his another jug, they stacked.
He's a vegetarian for every purpose.
But all the money, all the money that
he got it from these poor Tibetans, and
even today if you go and see him,
he is the one who is introducing drugs.
Nobody understands you, Mother.
You should leave now to translate.
All right, all right.
He understands.
Yeah.
And this is a very good example, of
showing how a person who is kind to
the animals like Dalai Lama and to the
poor Tibetans, he actually sucked their blood, because
I don't know how he made so much
gold, that he had plates of gold and
everything.
And even if you go and see him
now in Dharamshala, he has a complete big
Buddha made out of real gold and he
takes food in nothing but gold.
Even his bath tub, like what we call
a Ganga in Indian language, that's not a
tub, but a kind of a big bucket
sort of a thing, was of real gold.
I mean, imagine the compassion of this man.
The Tibetans, poor things, suffering, without any warm
clothes, very cold country, and this gentleman making
all the gold for himself.
What is the compassion?
And we have many communities in India like
that, who are absolute vegetarians and extremely cruel.
All the Tibetans are not vegetarians, there's only
the Dalai Lama who is, because all the
Tibetans, they eat lots of meat.
But he, I'm talking about Dalai Lama and
his personal life.
But I can tell you one thing about
Dalai Lama, I was in Germany when he
gave his speech, and in this half an
hour, he was talking about twenty times, one
word, you know what it was, it was
warm, hot meat.
He talks.
Talking is different, doing is different.
What is wrong with his speech?
Now you go to him, that's the best
for you, and then when you are hurt,
don't come to me, that's all.
I just said, Buddha said also, I didn't
say anything.
No, no, no, you don't know, just now
I've told you that Buddha used to eat
meat, it's proved.
So you don't now try to establish something
and spoil everybody's chances of Realization.
If you don't want, you can go, but
don't trouble others.
You see, this is not the way to
discuss, it's going too far.
All right, now I've given you time, please.
Now, any other question?
All right.
Now the thing is, one thing one must
understand, that compassion doesn't talk.
You don't have to talk, it acts, it
works.
It doesn't talk, it's silent.
To see the compassion of a person, you
should see Christ.
Somebody touched the cloth of Christ and that
was cured.
And you must know, Sahaja Yoga has cured
many people, just like that.
People have given up their drugs just like
that.
The power of compassion is the power of God
Which is the all-pervading power
Which acts, which thinks, which understands, which corrects
Which redeems
which completely transforms you.
That is what is compassion.
You don't have to talk about it.
You have to feel it, it is all pervading
First, there are things, I follow your teaching
very well, that is, be enlightened first, and
then talk, I understand that.
But unfortunately there are many people who are
not enlightened, and then the questions I want
to ask are the following ones.
First you said, when you are enlightened, you
do not have diseases.
No.
But I have many examples of Ramana Maharshi,
who died of cancer.
Who died of cancer?
Ramana Maharshi.
That was one mishap.
I tell you why, because even if some
are realized souls, I must say Ramana Maharshi
was a great personality, no doubt.
But the thing is, you see, some people
died of cancer because they had no one
to tell them how to get cured.
I am here to tell you.
I know how to do it.
I know the trick.
All right?
This is the reason.
I know he died, I am very sorry,
because he was a realized soul, no doubt.
He was a great person.
But I was not there at that time.
I can tell you how to cure cancer.
I have cured the cancer of our ex
president, who was Mr. Sanjeev Reddy.
You may write to him and find out.
In ten minutes.
No, no, please stand up and say.
We can't hear you.
Just.
All right.
No, no, you say hello.
See now.
I will say in short one thing.
Let us see.
Whatever I have said it.
See, see, hello.
I'll just tell him.
He understands English.
Whatever I am saying.
Hello, just a minute.
Just a minute.
Listen to me.
One minute.
No, no, let me tell him.
Just don't confuse everyone.
Whatever I am saying, it is to be
first of all seen if it works or
not.
Supposing it is My hypothesis as a scientist,
you must have patience, see for yourself it
works or not.
If it does not work, then you can
say, but just now you have patience.
You cannot just now by argument, how will
I prove it?
All right, sit down.
So we better take the medicine and see.
Now they want to have it.
All right.
We'll do one thing.
You write it down your question, I'll answer
tomorrow.
They are very anxious to have Realization.
Also.
They are impatient.
I think you should write down all your
questions, leave it to Me tomorrow, and I'll
try to answer.
Because it's not difficult to answer this question.
But can you wait?
Why not have Realization?
Just have Realization there.
All right?
Have patience.
Let us have water, please.
It's good that you can ask Me questions.
But I like it that you can ask
Me questions.
I like it very much for one reason,
that you are free.
It shows you are free.
You are not under any spell.
It's a very good sign that you can
ask Me questions.
But those who have been to gurus, they
never ask questions.
They just go on paying money.
So let us first get Realization, because the
knowledge is very, very great.
I must have given at least three thousand
lectures in English language.
At least.
Now it's not, cannot be discussed in one
lecture.
Now there are majority of the people want
Realization.
So let us yield to the majority.
All right?
(Shri Mataji speaks Indian)
people want Realization.
Let's have it now.
Anyway, I think the lady sitting next to
you finds it difficult.
Let her come in front, next to you.
She could come.
The lady next to you, this lady, there.
The other side.
Now the first thing is, you have to
be comfortable.
If there is
because your attention should not be diverted.
You have come for the first time, and
attention can be diverted very easily.
Because the attention is like, say, like My
sari, you can say that, spread out, and
the Kundalini pushes it in.
So if it is tied outside, it's rather
difficult.
So the attention has to be kept free.
Secondly, if you think anything is tight on
your neck or on your waist, anywhere tight,
just little bit reduce the pressures.
Thirdly, you have to keep your eyes shut.
You don't need not wear your spectacles.
It has a better effect on your eyesight
also.
You don't have to open your eyes throughout.
Fourthly, those who do not want to do,
should go away, to be civil, to be
kind to others.
Because negative people disturb the happening, and the
neighbors suffer from such people.
It's a very sensitive and delicate happening, and
it has to work out.
The desire should be that it should work
out.
I cannot guarantee that hundred percent people will
get it today.
I cannot guarantee.
But most of you should.
Because you are quite complicated.
So, simple things are to be done.
First of all, we have to touch the
Mother Earth.
If you can take out your shoes, I'll
be thankful.
Little less could be better.
It's all right.
It doesn't matter.
For me, I'm quite used to them now.
If you don't need them, better to put
them off.
For Me, it's too much sometimes, all the
time.
But the back ones are quite a lot
also there.
It's all right.
Now, tomorrow I'll tell you that the left
side in us is our emotional side, is
the side of the heart, is the power
of desire.
And the Kundalini is the pure desire.
And the right side is the power of
action.
Now, just to tell you, I'm telling you,
but later on you will understand it fully
what it is.
It is not just like talking about something
big.
It's just you will know everything.
Now, you have to put your left hand
on your lap, very comfortably, very comfortably, on
your lap, loudly.
Loudly, they can't hear something.
And the posture should be straight, need not
bend, need not bend back, but straight, in
a normal way.
It's all right.
This is better.
Now, left hand towards Me, and right hand,
first I'll tell you to put on your
heart, because here resides the Spirit.
Then the center, that is on the left
-hand side of our stomach.
The whole work we have to do on
the left-hand side.
Now, the left hand is, the left hand
is always kept towards Me, like this.
That is the desire that you want to
get your Realization.
Then the second center you have to touch
with your right hand is on the left
-hand side of your stomach, in the lower
part of your abdomen.
Now, again you have to raise them from
there to the upper part of the stomach
on the left-hand side.
Little louder.
And then again on your heart.
You need not close your eyes first, you
can see then I'll tell you what to
say.
Then this right hand on this center here,
on the left-hand side, holding it tight.
This is catching the worst among all of
you.
This center catches when we feel guilty.
You should not feel guilty at all.
As it is, you are the temple of
God.
There is no need to feel guilty at
all.
At the very outset I would request you
not to feel guilty.
Now, the right hand is taken on the
forehead here.
Now at the back.
Then you have to stretch your hand and
put this on the fontanel bone area here,
where it was a soft bone.
Loudly.
And press it hard.
Seven times you have to move it.
That's all.
Now we'll do it after closing our eyes.
Only thing, remember, don't put your hand from
this side, but when you come to this
center you have to put it this way.
All right.
It's a very simple thing, anybody can do
it.
And you will be surprised that already so
many of you have no thoughts in the
mind.
It's already crossed the Agnya, this portion, the
center of Christ, it has crossed.
I can see.
Now, please put your left hand all the
time towards Me and repeat in your heart
what I say.
First of all, first of all tell yourself
that you are not guilty.
I am not guilty, say that, in your
heart.
All right.
Now close your eyes.
Now put your right hand on your heart.
Now you have to ask Me a question,
you may call Me Shri Mataji or Mother,
whichever way you like.
You please ask Me a question, Mother, am
I the Spirit?
Close the eyes, close the eyes, don't keep
them open.
That's good.
Close it.
Because closing the eyes the attention is taken
inside.
Mother, am I the Spirit?
Three times.
I think you go nearer to the thing
because they can't hear you.
Now this question follows another question, that if
you are the Spirit, you are your own
guide, your own guru, you are your own
master.
So now you put your right hand on
the upper part of your stomach, on the
left hand side, which is the center of
mastery.
This is the center which is created by
the masters, the great masters who are Sadhgurus,
who are real masters.
Like Abraham, Moses, Janak, Nanak.
Lao Tse, Mohammad Sahab.
Now you take this hand, little deep, prayers,
push it little deep into that area in
the upper part of the abdomen and ask
a question three times, Mother, am I my
own guide?
Am I my own master?
Am I my own guru?
Ask in your heart.
Ask a question.
In your heart.
This will neutralize if you have been to
some wrong master.
Please be seated Sir
Sıcaklamış olmalısınız
Now, don't pay attention to others, it's a
time for you to pay attention to yourself.
When are you going to pay attention to
yourself?
Loudly, why do you go down?
Now, now this hand is to be taken
down below on the lower part of the
abdomen, on the left hand side please,
lower part, loudly just say, press
it hard.
This is the center which gives you the
true knowledge or works out the technique of
true knowledge
called as Shuddha Vidya, that's the technique of
working out God's laws.
So to awaken this, I have to ask
you that I cannot cross your freedom.
You have to ask, Mother please give me
true knowledge.
Please ask six times because this center has
got six petals.
Can you get me some water, it's too
hot.
Right, right Agnya, it's too much.
Please ask six times.
Right Agnya, it's too much.
Now better, better.
Now
now by asking this
The Kundalini starts
moving.
Raise your right hand on the upper part
of your abdomen on the left hand side
and again push it with your fingers.
Raise right hand on the upper part of
the abdomen.
Now as the Kundalini is awakening you have
to give a seat to the Kundalini or
the assurance to the Kundalini.
Without feeling guilty, with full confidence in yourself,
you assert by saying, Mother
I am my own guru, I am my
own master, I am my own guide, ten
times because there are ten gurus.
Ten times, with full confidence in you.
Now, ten times it is to be said,
with full confidence.
Now raise this right hand again on to
the heart where resides your spirit.
This center has got twelve petals.
So please say twelve times, full assertion, full
confidence in yourself.
Mother, I am the spirit.
Say it twelve times, with full confidence.
You must know that the Divine is not
only the ocean of love and compassion but
it is the ocean of forgiveness.
So you please don't have any guilt in
your mind.
Forgive yourself first of all.
Raise this hand in the corner of the
base of the neck and your shoulder
And at this center you must say with full
confidence, Mother I am not guilty, sixteen times.
Sixteen times.
Put the left hand towards Me and the
right hand, put it on the lap,
parallel to the lap.
Better, it's better.
Please don't feel guilty.
Ah, it's rising.
Now raise this right hand on your forehead
across and press it on both the sides.
Press it on both the sides.
Now here you say from your heart, how
many times is not the point, from your
heart, Mother I forgive everyone.
You may think, now you may think that
it is difficult to forgive but if you
do not forgive or you forgive it is
a myth.
But when you forgive you do not play
into the hands of others.
So from your heart just say, Mother I
forgive, you feel very much relieved, I forgive
everyone.
Now to get over your guilt you put
your right hand on the back side of
your head, just to get over your guilt,
don't feel guilty.
I only say that if I have done
any mistakes, in the glory of the Divine,
please forgive Me.
But don't feel guilty
it's better.
Now
Now raise your right hand on top of
your head, stretch your fingers and put your
palm on the fontanel bone area and try
to press it hard and move it seven
times.
Press it hard.
Now here again I cannot cross your freedom,
so you have to ask for your Self
Realization seven times saying, Mother please may I
have the Self Realization I want it.
Heart, stretch it
Seven times.
Now take down your right hand slowly on
your lap.
Please slowly open your eyes.
Without thinking you are mostly in thoughtless awareness,
most of you.
You can feel on top of your head
the cool breeze.
Now with the left hand, put the right
hand towards Me and with the left hand,
see if there's a cool breeze coming.
Please open your eyes.
You may open your eyes.
On the fontanel bone area, it's little in
the front side.
It is a subtle thing.
For some people feel the heat.
Are you feeling?
Good
Now take your right hand and see, left
hand towards Me.
Keep your eyes open.
See it without thinking.
You are a seeker, that's the main point,
must know that.
That's the most important point.
The rest of it you forget.
Now put the right hand again.
See with the left hand.
It's very subtle.
See are you feeling the cool breeze?
Another hand , yes. Good, good
You can put your hands up there and
ask a question.
Up there, put your heads up
And ask a question, Mother, is this the cool breeze
of the Holy Ghost?
Cool breeze of the Adi Shakti?
Is this the all-pervading power of God's
love?
Is this the all-pervading power of God's love
Now put down your hands.
Now see on your hands.
See on your hands.
Feeling it in your hands also.
This is the power that is called as
Ritambhara Prajna.
This is the power that does all living work
Just feel it, it's in the hand
You can feel it.
It's there, it's there.
Now for the first time you are feeling
this power.
That is what actualization.
It's not just lecture.
You are beyond thoughts.
You see yourself, there's no thought in your
mind, in silence.
Some have not felt it, does not matter.
Again day after tomorrow, I'll tell you what
is the Spirit.
Now go home and do not talk, because
you will again go into the level of
thinking.
Just relax.
Hope to see you day after tomorrow again.
Also bring your questions, if you are left
with any.
Did you feel?
No?
Some have not felt it, I know, but
it's all right, we'll work it out.
But do not waste time in questioning, but
in getting realization is important.
Because you are seekers of ages.
And don't waste this life.
Nothing is more important than your Spirit.
May God bless you all.
I'll meet you again day after tomorrow.
Please bring all your friends, all those whom
you know as seekers.
This is the greatest thing you can give
to your friends.
This is the last judgment.
You are judged by yourself.
May God bless you.
Thank you.
How are you?
All right?
Thank you very much.